README.md, before:

# Foundation for Emails Template

[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-emails-template/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-emails-template#info=devDependencies)

**Please open all issues with this template on the main [Foundation for Emails](http://github.com/zurb/foundation-emails/issues) repo.**

This is the official starter project for [Foundation for Emails](http://foundation.zurb.com/emails), a framework for creating responsive HTML devices that work in any email client. It has a Gulp-powered build system with these features:

- Handlebars HTML templates with [Panini](http://github.com/zurb/panini)
- Simplified HTML email syntax with [Inky](http://github.com/zurb/inky)
- Sass compilation
- Image compression
- Built-in BrowserSync server
- Full email inlining process

## Installation

To use this template, your computer needs [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) 0.12 or greater. The template can be installed with the Foundation CLI, or downloaded and set up manually.

### Using the CLI

Install the Foundation CLI with this command:

```bash
npm install foundation-cli --global
```

Use this command to set up a blank Foundation for Emails project:

```bash
foundation new --framework emails
```

The CLI will prompt you to give your project a name. The template will be downloaded into a folder with this name.

### Manual Setup

To manually set up the template, first download it with Git:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zurb/foundation-emails-template projectname
```

Then open the folder in your command line, and install the needed dependencies:

```bash
cd projectname
npm install
```

## Build Commands

Run `npm start` to kick off the build process. A new browser tab will open with a server pointing to your project files.

Run `npm run build` to inline your CSS into your HTML along with the rest of the build process.

Run `npm run litmus` to build as above, then submit to litmus for testing. *AWS S3 Account details required (config.json)*

Run `npm run zip` to build as above, then zip HTML and images for easy deployment to email marketing services. 

## Litmus Tests (config.json)

Testing in Litmus requires the images to be hosted publicly. The provided gulp task handles this by automating hosting to an AWS S3 account. Provide your Litmus and AWS S3 account details in the `example.config.json` and then rename to `config.json`. Litmus config, and `aws.url` are required, however if you follow the [aws-sdk suggestions](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/guide/node-configuring.html) you don't need to supply the AWS credentials into this JSON.

```json
{
  "aws": {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "accessKeyId": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_KEY",
    "secretAccessKey": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_SECRET",
    "params": {
        "Bucket": "elasticbeanstalk-us-east-1-THIS_IS_JUST_AN_EXAMPLE"
    },
    "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/elasticbeanstalk-us-east-1-THIS_IS_JUST_AN_EXAMPLE"
  },
  "litmus": {
    "username": "YOUR_LITMUS@EMAIL.com",
    "password": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD",
    "url": "https://YOUR_ACCOUNT.litmus.com",
    "applications": ["ol2003","ol2007","ol2010","ol2011","ol2013","chromegmailnew","chromeyahoo","appmail9","iphone5s","ipad","android4","androidgmailapp"]
  }
}
```

For a full list of Litmus' supported test clients(applications) see their [client list](https://litmus.com/emails/clients.xml).

**Caution:** AWS Service Fees will result, however, are usually very low do to minimal traffic. Use at your own discretion.

Commit message:

feat(template): add Default template formats and update README

README.md, after:

# Foundation for Emails Template

[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-emails-template/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-emails-template#info=devDependencies)

**Please open all issues with this template on the main [Foundation for Emails](http://github.com/zurb/foundation-emails/issues) repo.**

This is the official starter project for [Foundation for Emails](http://foundation.zurb.com/emails), a framework for creating responsive HTML devices that work in any email client. It has a Gulp-powered build system with these features:

- Handlebars HTML templates with [Panini](http://github.com/zurb/panini)
- Simplified HTML email syntax with [Inky](http://github.com/zurb/inky)
- Sass compilation
- Image compression
- Built-in BrowserSync server
- Full email inlining process

## Installation

To use this template, your computer needs [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) 0.12 or greater. The template can be installed with the Foundation CLI, or downloaded and set up manually.

### Using the CLI

Install the Foundation CLI with this command:

```bash
npm install foundation-cli --global
```

Use this command to set up a blank Foundation for Emails project:

```bash
foundation new --framework emails
```

The CLI will prompt you to give your project a name. The template will be downloaded into a folder with this name.

### Using Metisa's default templates

To use the starter kit with default email templates set up by Metisa, first download it with Git:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/altitudelabs/metisa-emails projectname
```

Then open the folder in your command line, and install the needed dependencies:

```bash
cd projectname
npm install
```

## Build Commands

Run `npm start` to kick off the build process. A new browser tab will open with a server pointing to your project files.

Run `npm run build` to inline your CSS into your HTML along with the rest of the build process.

Run `npm run litmus` to build as above, then submit to litmus for testing. *AWS S3 Account details required (config.json)*

Run `npm run zip` to build as above, then zip HTML and images for easy deployment to email marketing services. 

## Templates

There are two sets of email templates in the src/pages directory:
- metisa: contains the original emails Metisa uses. 
- mailchimp: contains default emails for standard marketing campaigns.

To access different pages on the browser, direct the url to the file path. 
For example, to access "file.html" under metisa's templates, the url should be 
> localhost:0000/metisa/file.html

## SES email implementation

Currently, there are no templates set up for SES due to syntax. To manually change the output files: 

1. `npm run build`
2. `cd projectname/dist` This folder contains all the output files that has combined both html and css code.
3. Copy the files that need to be in SES format and edit the tags manually. 
  * Mailchimp uses `*|tag|*`
  * Mailchimp if statements: `*|IF:TAG|*Hi *|TAG|*, *|ELSE:|*Hello,*|END:IF|*`
  * SES uses `{{tag}}`
  * SES if statements: `{% if TAG %}Hi {{TAG}}, {% elif not TAG %} Hello, {% endif %}`
  * Substitude accordingly

## Litmus Tests (config.json)

Testing in Litmus requires the images to be hosted publicly. The provided gulp task handles this by automating hosting to an AWS S3 account. Provide your Litmus and AWS S3 account details in the `example.config.json` and then rename to `config.json`. Litmus config, and `aws.url` are required, however if you follow the [aws-sdk suggestions](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/guide/node-configuring.html) you don't need to supply the AWS credentials into this JSON.

```json
{
  "aws": {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "accessKeyId": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_KEY",
    "secretAccessKey": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_SECRET",
    "params": {
        "Bucket": "elasticbeanstalk-us-east-1-THIS_IS_JUST_AN_EXAMPLE"
    },
    "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/elasticbeanstalk-us-east-1-THIS_IS_JUST_AN_EXAMPLE"
  },
  "litmus": {
    "username": "YOUR_LITMUS@EMAIL.com",
    "password": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD",
    "url": "https://YOUR_ACCOUNT.litmus.com",
    "applications": ["ol2003","ol2007","ol2010","ol2011","ol2013","chromegmailnew","chromeyahoo","appmail9","iphone5s","ipad","android4","androidgmailapp"]
  }
}
```

For a full list of Litmus' supported test clients(applications) see their [client list](https://litmus.com/emails/clients.xml).

**Caution:** AWS Service Fees will result, however, are usually very low do to minimal traffic. Use at your own discretion.
